+++
title = "What's this all about?"
description = "Some words about this project."
date = 2021-05-22
+++

TLDR: learning, experimentation, and sharing.

# Motivation

Today I *finished* the first part of the migration of my blog to a new
configuration and I want to take the opportunity to write a few words about
what I'm trying to do here.

I'm in a moment in which I'm learning a little about a lot of things. And, for
me, while studying about new technologies, processes, and tools, being able to
find way to practice them is fundamental. Other than that, I think this is one
of the best opportunities to share knowledge in the perspective of who is just
starting. That means, without assumptions of what is easy and what is hard, or
what are the best-practices or not.

# Changes are expected

I do not expect to keep things static. Everything I'm using here are things I'm
interested in learn more at this point in time. For example, currently this
website is running on a [NixOS](https://nixos.org) box, deployed with
[NixOps](https://github.com/NixOS/nixops), on a Azure Virtual Machine behind
Cloudflare, with static content generated by [Zola](https://www.getzola.org/)
(Rust, I'm still looking at you). These are all things I'm trying to enforce
myself to practice.

*(Before you ask me, this is why the text is in English too...)*

Maybe in the next six months this setup will be completely different, based on
the technologies I will be learning at that time. So, having my own place to
make mistakes, change, and break things is very useful.

And the goal is exactly that. To be able to share all this process with the
people that are in the same journey. The difficulties, successes, failures... I
think they are all phases of the learning process that deserve to be shared.

# Mistakes are expected too

As I'm starting in this new area, I may be wrong a lot of times about what I
will say here (I bet most of the time I will be). But, as I said before, this
is all about learning, experimentation, and sharing. If you think at some point
I completely lost my mind and wrote or did something very wrong in the
configuration, please contact me via mrioqueiroz at ProtonMail, or send a
pull-request on GitHub, and I will try to make the adjustments as soon as
possible.

# Simplicity and sharing

I want to keep the things simple, so I can have more flexibility to move.

The content is all being written in plain-text/Markdown and will be available
on GitHub soon, alongside all the underlying details about the infrastructure,
so you can easily fork and replicate the same setup and use it on your
projects.

Also keep an eye on the code-comments, as I will try to keep the decisions
behind most of the configurations well described.

# Final thoughts

Setting aside a time to share content (either through text, audio, or video) is
not easy, but it certainly is worth the effort. I sincerely hope that some of
the content I produce can help other people (as so many other people have
helped me since I came back to IT).
